It's fine. Like when we make little
movies starts to get dangerous when
women have their hands on a lot of
money.
Maggie Gyllenhaal has always had a
fascination with the darker sides of sex
and love.
>> I don't think you're shy. Her breakout
role was her award-winning performance
in the 2002 film Secretary, playing a
young woman in a sata masochistic
relationship with her older boss. More
than a decade later, Gyllenhaal starred
as Candy, a sex worker turned visionary
adult film director in The Deuce.
>> So, what do you do?
>> I make films. Yeah, I make porn.
>> And Gyllenhaal became a director herself
with The Lost Daughter, exploring the
taboo feelings some women have towards
motherhood. Children are a crushing
responsibility.
Happy birthday. For me, the throughine
of Gyllenhaal's work is her interest in
women who live outside of conventional
boundaries. Enter the bride, an
imaginative retelling of the Bride of
Frankenstein story, which she both wrote
and directed. It stars Jesse Buckley.
>> Was I just the same before the accident?
>> There wasn't any accident. The film is
part love story, part crime caper with
some surreal musical numbers thrown in
featuring Gyllenhaal's brother Jake no
less. And it also has her real life
husband, actor Peter Sarsgard, in it.
Gyllenhaal's signature themes of sexual
violence, female power, and
transgression undergur it all. Here's my
conversation with Maggie Gyllenhaal.
Thank you so much for being here. I
really appreciate you uh coming to the
interview. It it really is my pleasure.
You know, it's interesting to me because
um
I interviewed you in 2019 for The Deuce
and in that interview you said to me
that playing that role where she your
character becomes a director
>> um of pornography but a director
nonetheless. It's like a real journey.
You said that that had made you realize
that you would also be a director and I
was wondering, you know, now sitting
here with this big budget movie where
you're at in that kind of evolution. I
mean, I feel like I'm in like deeply
like in process. That's how I feel. Like
I knew I was going on a major journey
starting the bride. And I was scared.
>> I was actually terrified.
And um to be honest, I remember I mean I
don't know it's it's interesting that
I'm sharing this, but like I remember
being at Venice with Peter, my husband,
who had a movie there, and feeling so
scared about the prospect of directing
The Bride. And I remember feeling so
anxious and getting up and going to the
bathroom, looking at myself in the
mirror and thinking,
"Oh, I don't have to direct this.
I can let someone else direct it. I've
written it. I've cast it. I've conceived
of it. Oh, I don't have to do this." And
I came back to the table and I said to
Peter, "I don't know if I'm going to do
it. I feel so relieved."
and he was like, "You don't have to do
it, but that doesn't mean that you
shouldn't,
>> but I feel having come out the other
side and only really having finished it
in October. It's February now. Um, like
I went on a on a trip. I mean, it was it
was
I I learned so much. And now I'm on the
trip of putting it out into the world.
Well, let's talk about The Bride. It
tells the story of The Bride of
Frankenstein's monster. And you have
said that you were inspired by the 1930s
movie original. This is almost a century
later. Why are we still so interested in
monsters and Frankenstein? And what was
it for you that seemed so enduring about
that story?
Yeah. I mean,
I think we have monstrous aspects inside
of us, each of us, all of us. I do
believe that. And I think we can spend
our lives running from those like really
truly monstrous aspects of ourselves, or
we can turn around and shake hands with
them.
>> And that's terrifying.
And um that's the kind of monstrousness
I was curious about and interested in.
Frankenstein as a piece of cultural
mythology. I actually hadn't read the
book. I mean, I'll tell you how it all
came to me. Um I was like I was getting
kind of pitched IP after The Lost
Daughter, you know, like um maybe you
want to do a
>> Marvel movie or something. And I had
made this little tiny movie really left
alone like almost entirely. It was cheap
enough that and it was co and they sort
of forgot about us. That's what I think
when I look back on it. Um but it made
an impact and I thought I don't know how
many more opportunities I'll have to
make a film. Um I want to do something
bigger. And I also thought The Lost
Daughter hit
a little vein where other people could
relate to something that hadn't been
talked about that much before. And I
thought, what if you could do the same
thing but like on a pop level, on like a
big level? What would happen? That's
this was my question to myself. And as I
was thinking about this and thinking,
okay, I better I better think of
something quick because who knows how
long I'll be able to finance a movie.
Um, I saw this guy with a a bride of
Frankenstein tattoo on his arm, the Elsa
Lchester hairdo profile.
>> And I was like, who is that again?
>> And I looked her up and I was like, oh
yeah, her. Whoa, she's got some
like wild energy. Just the image.
>> I hadn't seen the movie. I watched the
movie and I was like, "Oh, the Bride of
Frankenstein
is a Frankenstein movie. There's almost
nothing to do with The Bride of
Frankenstein.
>> She's like a prop.
>> She's in it for three minutes less,
maybe. and she doesn't say one word
but somehow
she has entered the cultural mythology
even though she doesn't get to speak and
I do
I don't know my fantasy it's just my
fantasy and I've been taken to task for
this is that I don't know if Mary Shelly
got everything she wanted to say out
with Frankenstein I I love the book. The
book is brilliant. Obviously, um, you
know, it's one of like what, five books
published that were written by women in
the 19th century. I know I'm
exaggerating, but like, you know, not
easy to do. And so, how did she have to
censor herself in order to get that book
published? That's my kind of that's a
major question in the movie. This is,
you know, quite a violent film. It's
visceral. It's bloody. I'm wondering
what you were tapping into with that.
>> Yeah, I have a kind of a lot to say
about this. Actually, I've been thinking
about this. Um, yes, there's sexual
violence, there's violence, violence,
you know, because it's a big studio
movie. We like tested and tested it. We
had, you know, big screenings in malls
and stuff where people came to see it,
which I had never been a part of as an
actress or a director before.
>> So fascinating.
>> I want to hear about that. Get finish.
No, I'm going to. But one of the things
that they that was brought up was the
violence. Is it too violent
>> by the by the people going to see it?
>> Yeah.
>> And I was talking about it with a
girlfriend of mine who said, she wasn't
being reductive. She's just like, I'm
just curious. I just wonder if you had
been a man making this movie if if you
would have had the same response just
about the just straight violence.
>> Yeah. I'm thinking of a lot of directors
um off the top of my head whose
signature is that kind of violence,
right?
>> And I was asked to take some of it out
and I did. So, what you're seeing is
even a little bit pulled back from what
was originally in the movie. One of the
things I think that was important to me
is that everybody who is killed, is
hurt, we at least for a moment get to
know them. So there's the sort of
Stormtrooper version of killing people
where they have white masks on and you
don't know who they are. And then
there's the version where which it was
very important to me in this movie.
Every single death has a consequence and
a cost. Every single one.
>> The other thing I really want to talk
about, I want to talk about the sexual
violence because that's another thing
that I have been taken to task for. And
I I I do taken to task by whom? again
just by like reading the things in the
in the test screenings.
>> I I'm interested in this. I I really am
I'm really curious, you know. So, I had
a a couple of women um cuz you know, you
don't know who it is, of course, but you
know it's a woman, you know what age
they are say,
I don't want to see a woman being
violated.
And I think I also don't want to see
that. And yet that is a major reality in
the culture that we're living in. And so
if we're gonna see it, which in this
movie we do need to see it, we need to
see it in a way that is very hard to
watch because it is very awful. And if
you know anything about me, I mean, if
you looked at any of my work, I mean, so
much of my work, even starting with
secretary when I was 22, all the way
through, this is something that I've
spent a lot of time thinking about,
doing myself, considering, and I am sure
that in the process of both writing,
shooting, and cutting this movie
that I have and thoughtful
and very considerate about this
particular subject and yet it will be
hard to watch and I think we can take
it. I think we can. You have just
articulated something which I think is
very true about your work. Um which is
this has been a persistent theme and I
guess I want to understand why.
>> Well like what part exactly? Well, the
idea of violence towards women, what is
it that that
has
drawn you over and over again to that
subject?
There is a piece of this this is a piece
of what the movie is about.
>> I understand. But but also and I think
with all of these movies like I say
think think about the deuce sex worker
turn director but director of porn
but really she's a woman with a mind
and like all of these movies really I
think are about
women with a mind you know like even
think about secretary which is a very
complicated one which we can get into if
you want but
>> I was going to
>> I don't know to me in some ways the
violence is like beside the point.
>> It's not the violence it's the rage.
>> Oh it's the rage.
>> Yeah.
>> Sorry.
>> That's that's what I connected. That's
interesting
>> to me. It's not the violence. It's the
rage against the violence.
>> That's so interesting. I was just
talking about rage yesterday. I love
rage. So, this is coming from someone
who's very rageful.
>> I was thinking about rage and thinking
about this teacher I had who was um
just a major major teacher to me. Her
name was Penny Allen. She's she's dead.
Um
but she used to say rage is an umbrella
emotion.
>> And what she meant was
what's underneath it.
And I think what's underneath it is
usually very very vulnerable.
And
I don't know there's so much to say
about rage because like for so for women
in so many ways like let's not skip rage
like we have a right to it.
>> But I am also really curious about
what's underneath it. H
>> I I do feel angry about all sorts of
things, you know, and feel a lot of
vulnerability underneath that and just
need and a desire to be heard. And
>> I hope that,
>> you know, the people in the test
screening who said, "I don't want to see
this." And I know what they meant. I
know they meant enough of this in a
gratuitous way.
None of us want to see it. But like
let's look at it together
with thoughtfulness and care and also
like
there's
um joy. There's real joy in this movie.
There was reporting around it being sort
of a difficult um process once you know
at the end with Warner Brothers because
of some of the things you talked about
the way it tested. Were there a lot of
changes? Was it difficult to sort of
work through the big budget studio
system to get to the other side of that?
>> Yeah, it was
difficult but not
like not in a bad way. It was just
very new for me and I was very
interested like
I loved working with Pam and Mike
>> and this is Pam um Abdi.
>> Pam Abdi who runs Warner Brothers along
with Mike Duca.
>> Um both of them were there but uh I
think both of them would say this was
this was really me and Pam. Um,
and I knew she understood me and I knew
she understood what what I was saying.
And there would be times where she would
be like, "Maggie, you cannot have
Frankenstein lick black vomit off of the
bride's neck. It's just too much. You
just can't do it." But she understood
why I wanted it. You know, it's not like
she was
>> someone who didn't hear me and couldn't
understand me.
>> Do you think it can dilute though um the
vision of something? because I've heard
other creators talk about you know that
process and how and also how many movies
have been made about like the Hollywood
you know system that sort of saps the
creative vision till it becomes this
>> you know I mean I palatable thing what I
now am putting out into the world
I I think the places where Pam really
pushed me to let go of things I I to be
honest I I really do think that they
served the movie ultimately and my goal
from the very beginning was to try to
open a bigger vein was to be tell the
truth about something that could be
heard by many people. So I really think
Pam helped me to do that and she never
pretended she was doing anything else.
This film was also a family affair which
I found uh really fun to watch. Uh
obviously your brother Jake is in the
film. This is the first time you
directed him.
>> I'm wondering how that went being the
older sibling.
>> How did that feel?
>> Well, Jake I I waited um
until I was absolutely sure that asking
him to do this part in the movie, it's a
pretty small part. It's just a little
It's just a cameo really. But um but
asking
>> the fun part.
>> Yeah. He dances, he sings, he's the
matinea idol, you know.
>> Yeah. Um I made sure I really did some
work and thinking to make sure that it
was the right thing to do to ask him.
And then when I knew that it was, cuz I
did come to the conclusion that it was,
it was both I remember asking him and
like tearing up. I called him and I
waited too long so that he had to learn
those songs and dances and stuff really
quickly.
>> Um, but that was a rookie mistake. But
anyway, uh, I teared up. I remember just
alone in this hotel room I was in asking
him because it meant so much to me and
it meant so much to me to
interact with him.
>> Why? What did it mean? H
I think I have in the past had to sort
of like be separate from my family, from
my brother. Like cool, I got my own
thing going. I I think I did have to do
that. I mean, we both started so young
and I think it was,
you know, it was just a really honest,
vulnerable, like what's underneath rage.
um reaching out just basically saying I
want
to interact and also I know that this is
a place where we can do it like I'm not
asking him to do something that he can't
do. I'm I'm making like an offer which
is a generous thing to do.
>> An invitation.
>> Yeah. And and with with just with love,
you know. And
>> have you two been aranged?
>> No. I don't know. We've never been
estranged, but we've never been as close
as we are now. You know, I think we're
like finally in I don't know, maybe the
last
5 years, although more and more and more
even each day
really
interacting, which is hard for people to
do. The other thing I was thinking about
the the family dynamics is with your
husband who you have worked with before.
>> Yeah.
>> Your parents obviously were filmmakers.
Your mother is a screenwriter, your
father was a director.
>> Mhm.
>> And you've said that them working
together might have caused their
ultimate separation.
>> Um because it's hard to work with family
members. And I just wondered if when you
are working with Peter if that's you
know in your mind if you're thinking
about that uh the the sort of fraudness
of maybe embarking on those family
relationships while you're working.
>> I don't think that them working together
caused their separation but I don't
think it was good for them.
>> Right.
>> Like I think
>> right
>> it was a bad idea and they did it a few
times. It is complicated working with my
husband.
We've done it in all sorts of ways. We
did it as actors together on stage in
two check off plays and it was like hard
and awesome. Like I remember playing
Masha, which is one of the parts I'm
most proud of with Peter playing Versin
and I had the fantasy I was young. I was
like 33
that Masha and Versin and three sisters
were like the love affair of all time.
And that is not what my husband thought.
I was like, "So, you totally understood
it."
>> What? Why are you so withholding? Like,
>> why? What's why why make that choice,
you know? Um, and I was hurt personally
by like the artistic choice he was
making. But Penny, our teacher, our
mutual teacher that I was mentioning
before, she said to me that that play is
when I really started to learn how to
work. And she was like, "You may wish
that that's the relationship that you
had." Okay, so now Masha wishes that,
but that is not the relationship that
you're actually having to contend with
on stage. So contend with that
relationship.
>> So that was great and both exciting and
difficult.
>> Um,
then we did uh The Lost Daughter where
he has like a really hot love affair
with Jesse Buckley.
>> Your name, it's very provocative. you
thinking about the Yates in Italian?
>> Yes, he does. Which um was very
complicated too. And at first I I almost
didn't give him the part because of
that.
>> Mhm.
>> I was like, I don't need that also along
with directing a movie for the first
time. And how did you talk through that?
I actually offered it to somebody else
first.
>> Wow. And I knew he was hurt even though
we hadn't really talked about him
playing it. We might have. Um, and I
remember speaking to both my best
girlfriend and to this teacher and both
of them were like,
"You can't manage this? Can you really
not?"
And I was like, "Oh, I think I can
actually. I think I can. I think I can
manage it. And I actually really want
Peter to play this part." And what was
it actually like?
Oh my god, it was so many things. I
mean, I it was like he was so good in
The Lost Daughter. He was so brilliant
and so was Jesse. And watching them
together and and like um egging them
each on from a very like unconnected
emotionally place. Okay, try this. Try
this. Not just in the sex, but in the uh
I mean this wasn't at all about the sex.
This was about the courtship which was
so hot and pushing them and pushing them
and watching them create as like real
actors have to like create the love.
>> Do it. It's okay. So they did that. I
watched them do that. I'm like,
"Okay, when I get like a second to stop,
it's a little hard,
>> but we have to keep going. We have to
keep going." Then we get to like the
sexy stuff and and I remember my
cinematographer
um who was amazing. We shoot the scene
on the on the steps where they're
kissing and all this stuff and I was
sort of like very like just looking at
it. Okay, wait. There's the light on her
leg in the right way and like if maybe
if we just pan this way very removed and
we got it. And then Helen says, "Oh, I
was going to do my French accel."
I
>> censored myself at the last minute.
Anyway, she's like, "Oh, no. will not
do. Uh there is a wine glass on the
steps. It is so bad. It is so bad. We
have to do it again. And I was like, we
we do we have to do it again. Okay, we
do it again. So, it was hard a little.
It's also
so full of life.
And I completely trust Jesse. We haven't
even talked about her. I mean, she's
like a sister.
And I completely trust Peter. So it was
kind of
like
it just just created life.
We touched a little bit on Secretary
>> and uh I rewatched it. I loved that film
when it came out. I just absolutely
loved it.
>> At the time you said it was a feminist
film.
>> Would you say it's a feminist film now?
It's funny. I also rewatched it
recently. They played it in the little
town that we live in in Vermont as a
part of like a
film thing they were doing. So, I
watched it like a few years ago, but
it's not right on the tip of my
mind. Um, I mean, what is a feminist
film? So, that was exactly the question,
Maggie, that I was going to ask.
>> I mean, right. Yes. Right. The thing
about secretary, I think, at least as I
intended it, was that it was consensual.
>> Mhm.
>> That she wanted that erotic relationship
with her boss. And so, who is anyone
else to tell her that that is not
allowed? So then the movie
asks like, can you make that true even
in this situation? You know, can you
know, can you tolerate it with a boss
who's older and a young woman who is
coming out of a mental institution?
Can you can you
>> can you allow her to want what she wants
if that's what she says she wants even
in those circumstances? I don't know.
That's the question.
>> And I haven't seen it recently enough to
say whether I can. But um I think that's
what I like that's what I was trying to
stir up at the time. Can she have what
she wants even if it's not what you
would want?
>> The idea of you as a young actor.
>> You were seen as this sort of cool girl,
you know, young actress who was willing
to push boundaries and I'm I'm wondering
what was, you know, at 23 having that
sense of like you wanted to stir
something up. What was going on there?
Well,
I don't think back then, although maybe
in other ways I wanted to push
boundaries just for the sake of it
maybe. But
in my work,
I think at least looking back on it from
here, like I think I wanted similar
things. I think I wanted to make people
think and not just think, like feel into
thinking. Secretary was also the first
time I really expressed my artistic
self.
>> I hadn't had a like a a like a template,
a palette, like I hadn't had the space.
>> Um, so that kind of attention was tied
up with that. Also, I met Peter when
that movie came out, like right around
then. So it was like falling in love,
finding some voice as an artist, which
obviously shifted and changed throughout
my career and grew and everything, but
that was the first time. So this is kind
of like just like a moment of life, like
a like a little explosion in a lot of
ways. Also, I was young. Like I wasn't
wellknown.
>> Yeah.
>> At that point, Jake was.
>> I mean, I imagine there was sibling
rivalry to see your brother have success
and you trying to sort of make your way
You know, in general, I am very
interested in in envy. I think there's a
reason why it's a seven deadly sin. I've
been interested in it in terms of
watching other people's movies come out.
>> Admiration versus envy.
Uh what creates it? I think it's usually
feeling starving, like you don't have
enough. M
>> even in general like I don't know her
well but I know Emerald Fennel a little
whose movie is about to come out and
>> Weathering Heights
>> Weathering Heights. I reached out to her
and I just said how are you doing? You
know how are you doing with all of this?
Um
and just the act of reaching out to her
and she's great like she's great
like frees the competition up. like you
go, "No, no, no, no, no. We're actually
100% on the same team."
>> Mhm.
>> There absolutely is enough to go around.
But I don't think I knew that at first
when I was young and Jake was a movie
star right away. I I don't think I knew
that. I don't think I was in touch with
the envy, but it was there. So, we've
been talking about being a female
director. And I was thinking about this
moment because on the one hand we've had
all these interesting,
you know, films come out just this year.
Khloe Xiao with Hamnet, Lin Ramsay with
Die My Love, Kristen Stewart with the
Chronology of Water. But on the other
hand, there's only 8% of films that were
made by women.
>> Mhm.
>> And that's a seven-year low.
>> I mean, what do you think that says?
H
I don't know. I'm thinking about
I'm thinking about whether to say this
say it. I think that um
it's fine. Like when we make little
movies cute, you know, or like go make
your little movie starts to get
dangerous when
women have their hands on a lot of
money. I mean, um,
it still doesn't really entirely answer
your question, you know, about how few
women are given the space, the real
estate to express ourselves.
And look, you're saying, you know what
you're saying? You're saying it's a tiny
percentage, but look at how many of
those movies were movies that made an
impact. Like, if you've had
your mouth shut for so long, almost like
a geyser, like having your hand on
something, well, when it bursts, it's
going to come out really powerfully and
with a lot of energy. Um, and I wonder
if what's happening culturally is gonna
Okay, I will say one thing about this is
gonna is gonna bring like an unstoppable
um response maybe especially from women.
I will say, and I don't know if I've
said this out loud before
again, maybe I'll get in trouble, but I
I actually think that when I really
became a director was actually I think
the first time um that the morning that
Trump was first elected, I think I was
like, I I have a lot more to say than
I've been saying.
>> Tell me what that means.
Well, you know, actually, I I was
thinking about um
I was thinking about Kristen Stewart's
interview on this show. It made an
impact in my community. Uh I remember
Jesse asked me, "Did you hear Kristen
Stewart's interview?" And I went and
listened to it. Um and I was thinking
about it in a lot of ways. I was
thinking about her idea that being that
being an actor is submissive.
Very interesting idea. And I was also
thinking about um something that she
said which is that she she she hadn't
heard of um a method actor who's a
woman.
>> Mhm.
>> And I I know she didn't quite mean that.
I want to talk to her. I don't know her
very well.
>> But um in fact, I just worked with Ellen
Buren who's 93 um studied with Lee Stber
and is absolutely a method actress. I
know that's not what Kristen meant. I I
don't think that's what she meant in my
watching it and interpreting it. But I
think what what being a method actor to
me because my teacher, this teacher I
keep bringing up also studied at the
actor studio with Lee Stberg and
is about bringing yourself into your
work. That's not exactly submissive. And
in my experience as an actress, I really
had to learn to
sometimes
convince everyone I was being submissive
and and radically get my own
artistic
just myself expressed otherwise like why
am I doing it, you know? And I think
what I mean is that I think I came to a
point at a certain point where I was
like, I can't keep playing that game. I
think something about that time made me
do it. Made me say, okay, I am
terrified.
I was terrified.
And I'm I'm going to do it anyway.
I want to thank you so much. This has
been really delightful. I've really
enjoyed it.
>> Thank you. Me, too.
>> Good.
>> Yeah.
On the interview, we talked to our guest
twice. So, a few days later, I followed
up with Maggie, who talked about how
hard it's been to find directors she
really connects with.
>> Hi. Can I scoot forward a little?
>> That's better.
>> God, it's so bright like this. Like,
what do you think about just backing
this up a little bit? Is that going to
take a long time if we just pulled it
back so I'm just not like right against
the window?
>> Let's do it.
>> Okay.
>> I like it. You're directing this.
>> Oh, yeah. That's so much better. Look,
it looks just so much more normal
anyway.
>> Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. 100%.
>> Yeah.
>> All right.
>> So, good to see you again.
>> Yeah. You, too. So, I went back after
our interview and I rewatched The Dark
Knight because it was on my mind since
we spoke a lot about you taking on this
sort of big budget movie
>> and I guess that movie had to have been
the biggest budget film you were ever a
part of. I mean, it was like such of a
huge event
>> and I was kind of wondering what that
experience taught you about how to
harness all those resources from inside
the studio system. Well, I I mean acting
in it is in a big huge budget movie is
very different than directing one. What
I did think was it's hard to be free
>> um in a movie of that size because there
are so many other aspects as an actor.
>> So many other aspects um that can
sometimes feel like they take precedent.
VFX, the massive day, the 400 extras,
whatever it is. And um Heath Ledger
really really managed to find that
humanity and freedom inside of that
really big movie. And I will say that
that was one of the most important
things to me on The Bride was to create
real freedom for all of the artists who
were working on it. that was a major
priority for me. I guess I am curious
about your own experience where that
wasn't what happened to you. I would say
as an actress to be honest, it is way
more rare to find a
an environment, a situation where you
feel seen, respected, and loved than one
where you don't. Yeah, that's my
experience. I had to learn how to do it
without it. And I see so many actors
walk on set with that mindset. I do. I
feel like most many actors walk on set
like, "Okay, I I I'm probably going to
get nothing here." And I have such a
wish and a hope for interaction and
connection. And I think I often had to
let go of having that um in a really
deep way
with a director. I mean there are
exceptions and there are times when I
had it and those people I did my best
work with them probably I mean I worked
with Mike Nichols for one day
as an actress in a reading of a play
that we did uh you know on stage in New
York and
he gave me probably one of the best
directions I've ever received and I knew
that He
wanted my mind in this. I was playing
Marie Curi
and he said he sort of took me aside
after the first read through and he said
come here. Um he said um just one thing
she's feral.
>> It's a great direction.
>> It's a great direction because it has no
end in mind.
It's just basically saying or no
particular end in mind. He's basically
saying the wildest secret stuff in you.
I want it. And I mean what a what an
incredible thing, you know. All right.
Um
so you are making this big budget movie
at a moment when the industry is really
struggling. Um and attention spans
are hard to capture. Studios are
consolidating. And I read two articles
um that really
chilled me. One was about how film
school students can't even focus enough
to know the ending of a 2-hour film. And
these are film school students.
>> And then I saw Matt Damon um recently
told um Joe Rogan that Netflix wants its
filmmakers to restate the plot of the
movie four times for people who are
double screening and to
>> double screening. like phone while
watching the thing. So, you have to sort
of restate it. Restate it so that
people, you know, who aren't really
following along can kind of jump back in
>> and that they also need to include a big
action sequence in the first five
minutes um to capture the audience's
attention. And I'm just sort of
wondering
>> what I think
>> was that no, first of all, what you
think, but also was any of that advice
given to you?
You know what's so funny about The Bride
is just so naturally it's based on a
really famous piece of IP. There's a big
action sequence in the first 8 minutes,
you know? I mean I mean uh there are
there I guess I feel no that that advice
was not given to me explicitly.
Um
but I mean look I I I know what's up.
I'm not gonna like say I'm making The
Bride of Frankenstein and then like go
make a super indie movie that like, you
know, you know what I mean? Like I I'm
I'm I'm
using the tools um
that are that I've been required to use.
That's like part of the puzzle, you
know, and I like them. I mean, that's
the thing. I I don't think you can fake
it. I think if you don't like the
Hollywood stuff, I think people will
smell a rat, you know. I I like it. I
like it. I just also
>> What do you like about What do you like
about it? Cuz I really thought a lot
about this. You saying that um I was
thinking about ambition and working
inside and outside of the Hollywood
system
>> and you were pretty clear that the
studio made the bride better. You felt
like their input actually improved
things, which is not something I think I
hear very often. I mean, listen, I have
a big streak in me that is totally
outside the box artistically. So, I also
like that. I mean, I really do. I love
like watching some I mean, you know the
feeling when you're watching a movie
with a kid and the kid says, "Who's
that? What's that? What's happening?"
And you say, "None of us know yet." We
all have to hold not knowing yet. And
you know, movies that are often outside
the studio system ask you to hold that
feeling for a long time. And I love
that,
>> you know, where you have to engage your
own mind, your own heart to decide who
you think that is and whether you think
they're a good guy or a bad guy. I love
that. But for me to have built um and
been allowed to build at this big studio
a movie that checked the boxes for them
in terms of the IP, in terms of the
action, the love story in so many ways,
but also be able to tell it in an
unusual outside the box way with real
freedom
and then have to come up against someone
very smart. I'm talking about Pam Abdi
with a different point of view and a and
a slightly different agenda. We then
together, two women, um
had to interact,
compromise,
um get inside of each other's minds to
ultimately create a movie together that
I I think both of us feel really proud
of. When we started this conversation,
I got this really strong sense of
someone who's like on the cusp of this
big adventure that they're about to
have. And I imagine now you're in LA and
you're just about to go on the big press
tour and it's going to get released into
the world and the critics are going to
see it. And I'm always so interested in
that moment, right? The in between time
before the world comes in. And I'm just
wondering where you're at, what you're
thinking right now before this this next
big thing happens for you.
>> I feel sort of simultaneously like
somebody who just had a baby
and someone who is about to have a baby
like like I you know that super
vulnerable time in between having had a
baby but being ready to go out in the
world. I I I have delivered my baby,
right? I mean, I'm finished with the
movie and I
have been coming back into myself even
like to the point of like now my jeans
fit, you know, like and uh and and at
the same time I know that
the world hasn't really seen it. So, I'm
kind of in both places at once. But I
want to say one other thing about this,
which is that when I started this
process,
um, even though I've put a lot of movies
out into the world at this point, I
naively believed
that if I was honest enough
and excellent enough
that everybody would love it. H
>> and
that is just not ever going to be true.
Um and it's late in life to learn that
or to be in the process of learning
that. Um, but I guess I'm interested in
how to
embrace,
tolerate,
even be proud of the ways in which um,
some people will light up and love this
and some people won't.
Maggie Gyllenhaal, thank you so much. I
have really, really enjoyed our time
together.
>> Thank you. Okay, that this was a great
interview. Thank you so much. Oh, thank
you. Yeah. Thank you. Bye.
>> Bye.
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro.
>> And I'm David Marchesy
>> and we're the hosts of the Interview, an
audio and video podcast from the New
York Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.